Hello, I hope you enjoyed your first
programming experience with Spark.
Although the words count
example is simple,
it is useful in starting to
understand how to work with RDDs.
After this video, you'll be able to use
two methods to create RDDs in Spark,
explain what immutable means,
interpret a Spark program as a pipeline
of transformations and actions, and
list the steps to create a Spark program.
So let's remember where we are.
We have a Driver Program that
defines the Spark context.
This is the entry point
to your application.
The driver converts all the data to RDDs,
and
everything from this point on
gets managed using the RDDs.
RDDs can be constructed from files or
any other storage.
They can also be constructed from
data structures for collections and
programs, like lists.
All the transformations and actions on
these RDDs take place either locally,
or on the Worker Nodes
managed by a Cluster Manager.
Each transformation results in
a new updated version of the RDD.
The RDDs at the end get converted and
saved in a persistent storage like HDFS or
your local drive.
As we mentioned before,
RDDs get created in the Driver Program.
The developer of the Driver Program,
who in this case is you,
is responsible for creating them.
You can just read in a file
through your Spark Context, or
as we have in this example,
you can provide an existing collection,
like a list to be turned into
a distributed collection.
You can also create an integer
RDD using parallelize,
and provide a number of partitions for
distribution as we do create
the numbers RDD in this line.
Here, the range function in Python
will give us a list of
numbers starting from 0 to 9.
The parallelize function
will create three partitions
of the RDD to be distributed, based on
the parameter that was provided to it.
Spark will decide how to assign partitions
to our executors and worker nodes.
The distributed RDDs can in the end be
gathered into a single partition on
the driver using
the collect transformation.
Now let's think of a scenario were we
start processing the created RDDs.
There are two types of operations
that help with processing in Spark,
namely Transformations and Actions.
All partitions written in RDD,
go through the same transformation in
the worker node, executors when
a transformation is applied to an RDD.
Spark uses lazy evaluation for
transformations.
That means they will not be
immediately executed, but
instead wait for
an action to be performed.
The transformations get computed
when an action is executed.
For this reason,
a lot of times you will see run
time errors showing up at the action stage
and not at the transformation stages.
It is very similar to Haskell or Erlang,
if any of you are familiar
with these languages.
Let's put some names on
these transformations.
We can have a pipeline by converting a
text file into an RDD with two partitions.
Filter some values out of it, and
maybe apply a map function to it.
In the end, the run,
the collect action on the mapped RDDs
to evaluate the results of the pipeline
and convert the outputs into results.
Here, filter and map are transformations,
and collect is the action.
Although the RDDs are in memory,
and they are not persistent,
we can use the cash function
to make them persistent cash.
For example, in order to reuse the RDD
created from a database query that could
otherwise be costly to re-execute,
we can instead cache these RDDs.
We need to use caution when
using the cache option,
as it can consume too much memory and
generate a bottleneck itself.
As a part of the Word Count example, we
mapped the words RDD to generate tuples.
We then applied reduceByKey
to tuples to generate counts.
In the end, we convert the number
of partitions to one so
that output is one file
when written to this later.
Otherwise, output will be spread
over multiple files on disk.
Finally, saveAsTextFile is an action
that kickstarts the computation and
writes to disk.
To summarize, in a typical Spark program
we create RDDs from external storage or
local collections like lists.
Then we apply transformations
to these RDDs,
like filter, map, and reduceByKey.
These transformations get lazily
evaluated until an action is performed.
Actions are performed both for local and
parallel computation to generate results.
Next, we will talk more about
transformation and actions in Spark.